docs(hub): add AI Harness section (#4270)
dlt-hub/dlt: docs/website/docs/hub/ai-harness/introduction.md

---
title: Introduction
description: What the dltHub AI Harness is and the components it's built from.
keywords: [ai harness, workbench, toolkits, skills, mcp, coding agent, claude code, cursor, codex]
---

# Introduction

> The dltHub AI Harness is a set of skills, rules, and MCP servers that turn a coding agent (Claude Code, Cursor, or Codex) into a dlt-aware data engineer. It draws from [dltHub Context](https://dlthub.com/context), a hub of deeply researched context on REST APIs across SaaS sources, databases, and destinations, so your agent pulls exactly what it needs to code any dlt pipeline.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The dltHub AI Harness is a set of skills, rules, and MCP servers that teach a general-purpose coding agent (Claude Code, Cursor, or Codex) how to build production-grade pipelines, deploy and run them on dltHub managed infrastructure. It draws from [dltHub Context](https://dlthub.com/context), a hub of deeply researched context on APIs across different SaaS sources, so your agent pulls exactly what it needs to code any dlt pipeline.
```

## Agentic workflows

The AI Harness kicks in whenever you describe a data-engineering goal to your agent. A few examples:

- "I want to ingest pull requests and issues from the GitHub REST API."
- "Load CSVs from an S3 bucket into DuckDB."
- "Explore data from the pipeline I just ran and build a marimo dashboard."
- "Deploy this pipeline and schedule it to run every day at 6 AM."

Each prompt maps to a toolkit, whose skills guide the agent through the workflow end to end.

## Toolkit components

The AI Harness bundles four kinds of artifacts into installable units called [**toolkits**](toolkits.md):

| Artifact | What it is | Example |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Skill | Step-by-step procedure the agent follows for a specific task | `find-source`, `debug-pipeline`, `prepare-deployment` |
| Rule | Always-on context the agent loads every session | Coding conventions, security constraints |
| Workflow | Ordered sequence of skills with a fixed entry point, loaded as a rule so it's always active | REST API pipeline workflow, Deploy workflow |
| MCP server | Tools the agent can call from inside a session | `dlt-workspace-mcp` exposes pipeline, schema, and secrets tools |

> Every [dltHub workspace](../getting-started/installation.md#what-is-a-dlthub-workspace) starts with one toolkit, `init`, which ships an MCP server (`dlt-workspace-mcp`) and a router skill called `dlthub-router`. From there, feature toolkits (`rest-api-pipeline`, `sql-database-pipeline`, `filesystem-pipeline`, `transformations`, `data-quality`, `dlthub-platform`, and more) are added as you need them.

Reviewer: Instead of listing toolkits let's just put a link: https://docs-ai-harness-section-docs.services4758.workers.dev/docs/devel/hub/ai-harness/toolkits
